docs: Meta Monitoring Loki v2 (Part 3) - documentation (#16835)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/operations/meta-monitoring/_index.md

---
title: Loki meta-monitoring
menuTitle: Monitor Loki
description: Describes the various options for monitoring your Loki environment, and the metrics available.
aliases: 
 - ../operations/observability
---
# Loki meta-monitoring

As part of your Loki implementation, you will also want to monitor your Loki cluster.

As a best practice, you should collect data about Loki in a separate instance of Loki, Prometheus, and Grafana. For example, send your Loki cluster data to a [Grafana Cloud account](https://grafana.com/products/cloud/). This will let you troubleshoot a broken Loki cluster from a working one.

Loki exposes the following observability data about itself:

> - **Metrics**: Loki provides a `/metrics` endpoint that sends information about Loki in Prometheus format. These metrics provide aggregated metrics of the health of your Loki cluster, allowing you to observe query response times, etc. Each Loki component sends its own metrics, allowing for fine-grained monitoring of the health of your Loki cluster see [metrics](#loki-metrics). This important to keep in mind when running a large distributed Loki cluster, see [metrics cardinality](#metrics-cardinality). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Metrics**: Loki provides a `/metrics` endpoint that sends information about Loki in Prometheus format. These metrics provide aggregated metrics of the health of your Loki cluster, allowing you to observe query response times, etc. Each Loki component sends its own metrics, allowing for fine-grained monitoring of the health of your Loki cluster. For more information about the metrics Loki exposes, refer to [metrics](#loki-metrics). It is important to keep [metrics cardinality](#metrics-cardinality) in mind when running a large distributed Loki cluster.
```

> - **Metrics**: Loki provides a `/metrics` endpoint that exports information about Loki in Prometheus format. These metrics provide aggregated metrics of the health of your Loki cluster, allowing you to observe query response times, etc. Each Loki component exposes its own metrics, allowing for fine-grained monitoring of the health of your Loki cluster see [metrics](#loki-metrics). This important to keep in mind when running a large distributed Loki cluster, see [metrics cardinality](#metrics-cardinality). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Metrics**: Loki provides a `/metrics` endpoint that sends information about Loki in Prometheus format. These metrics provide aggregated metrics of the health of your Loki cluster, allowing you to observe query response times, etc. Each Loki component sends its own metrics, allowing for fine-grained monitoring of the health of your Loki cluster see [metrics](#loki-metrics). This important to keep in mind when running a large distributed Loki cluster, see [metrics cardinality](#metrics-cardinality). 
```

> - **Logs**: Loki emits a detailed log line `metrics.go` for every query, which shows query duration, number of lines returned, query throughput, the specific LogQL that was executed, chunks searched, and much more. You can use these log lines to improve and optimize your query performance. You can also collect pod logs from your Loki components to monitor to drill down into specific issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Logs**: Loki emits a detailed log line `metrics.go` for every query, which shows query duration, number of lines returned, query throughput, the specific LogQL that was executed, chunks searched, and much more. You can use these log lines to improve and optimize your query performance. You can also collect pod logs from your Loki components to monitor and drill down into specific issues.
```

## Monitoring Loki

> There three primary components to monitoring Loki:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three primary components to monitoring Loki:
```

> 1. [Kubernetes Monitoring Helm](https://github.com/grafana/k8s-monitoring-helm/): The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart provides a comprehensive monitoring solution for Kubernetes clusters. It also provides direct integrations for monitoring the full LGTM (Loki, Grafana, Tempo and Mimir) stack. To learn how to deploy the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart, see [deploy meta-monitoring](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/operations/meta-monitoring/deploy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Kubernetes Monitoring Helm](https://github.com/grafana/k8s-monitoring-helm/): The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart provides a comprehensive monitoring solution for Kubernetes clusters. It also provides direct integrations for monitoring the full LGTM (Loki, Grafana, Tempo and Mimir) stack. To learn how to deploy the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart, refer to [deploy meta-monitoring](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/operations/meta-monitoring/deploy).
```

1. [Grafana Cloud account](https://grafana.com/products/cloud/) or a seperate LGTM stack: The data collected from the Loki cluster can be sent to a Grafana Cloud account or a separate LGTM stack. We recommend using Grafana Cloud since it is Grafana Lab's responsiblity to maintain the availability and performance of the Grafana Cloud services. 

> 1. [The Loki mixin](https://github.com/grafana/loki/tree/main/production/loki-mixin-compiled): is an opinionated set of dashboards, alerts and recording rules to monitor your Loki cluster. The mixin provides a comprehensive package for monitoring Loki in production. You can install the mixin into a Grafana instance. To install the Loki mixin, follow [these directions](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/operations/meta-monitoring/mixins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [The Loki mixin](https://github.com/grafana/loki/tree/main/production/loki-mixin-compiled): is an opinionated set of dashboards, alerts, and recording rules to monitor your Loki cluster. The mixin provides a comprehensive package for monitoring Loki in production. You can install the mixin into a Grafana instance. To install the Loki mixin, follow [these directions](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/operations/meta-monitoring/mixins).
```

You should also plan separately for infrastructure-level monitoring, to monitor the capacity or throughput of your storage provider, for example, or your networking layer.

- [MinIO](https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/operations/monitoring/collect-minio-metrics-using-prometheus.html)
- [Kubernetes](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/kubernetes-monitoring/)

> The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart we use to monitor Loki also provides these features out of the box with K8s monitoring enabled by default. You can choose which of these features to enable or disable based on how much data you can afford to collect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart Grafana Labs uses to monitor Loki also provides these features out of the box with Kubernetes monitoring enabled by default. You can choose which of these features to enable or disable based on how much data you can afford to collect.
```

> The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart Grafana Labs uses to monitor Loki also provides these features out of the box with Kubernetes monitoring enabled by default. You can choose which of these features to enable or disable based on how much data you can afford to collect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart Grafana Labs uses to monitor Loki also provides these features out of the box with Kubernetes monitoring enabled by default. You can choose which of these features to enable or disable based on how much data you want to collect and your meta-monitoring budget.
```

Note that most of the metrics are counters and should continuously increase during normal operations.

1. Your app emits a log line to a file that is tracked by Alloy.

> 2. Alloy reads the new line and increases its counters.
> 3. Alloy forwards the log line to a Loki distributor, where the received

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Alloy reads the new line and increases its counters.
1. Alloy forwards the log line to a Loki distributor, where the received
```

   counters should increase.

> 4. The Loki distributor forwards the log line to a Loki ingester, where the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Loki distributor forwards the log line to a Loki ingester, where the
```

   request duration counter should increase.

If Alloy uses any pipelines with metrics stages, those metrics will also be
exposed by Alloy at its `/metrics` endpoint.

### Metrics cardinality

> Some of the Loki observability metrics are emitted per tracked file (active), with the file path included in labels. This increases the quantity of label values across the environment, thereby increasing cardinality. Best practices with Prometheus labels discourage increasing cardinality in this way. The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart provides best practices for monitoring Loki, including how to manage cardinality, however it is important to be aware of cardinality when implementing auto scaling of components in your Loki cluster.

Reviewer: Line 76 and line 82, can we change the double quotes around `metrics.go` to single quotes to match the rest of the formatting in this topic.

> Some of the Loki observability metrics are emitted per tracked file (active), with the file path included in labels. This increases the quantity of label values across the environment, thereby increasing cardinality. Best practices with Prometheus labels discourage increasing cardinality in this way. The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart provides best practises for monitoring Loki, including how to manage cardinality, however it is important to be aware of this when implementing auto scaling of components in your Loki cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the Loki observability metrics are emitted per tracked file (active), with the file path included in labels. This increases the quantity of label values across the environment, thereby increasing cardinality. Best practices with Prometheus labels discourage increasing cardinality in this way. The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart provides best practices for monitoring Loki, including how to manage cardinality, however it is important to be aware of cardinality when implementing auto scaling of components in your Loki cluster.
```
